Installing Inferno on an IPAQ (1 September 2001)

This is a release of preliminary Inferno kernel software for the iPAQ.
There are applications that are still being prepared (such as
the modified browser).  Of course, since it's Inferno, the existing
applications, and yours, will run (give or take kernel bugs).

This describes loading the Inferno kernel in to the iPAQ.
This preliminary version has some things hard-wired in to the code
to run on our wavelan network (see the end of archipaq.c).

os/init/ipaqinit.b will support a file system (currently dossrv for simplicity)
running over a Flash Translation Layer on the iPAQ flash.
Setting up a local file system and loading that onto the iPAQ
is not discussed here.  A separate package will deal with that.

For development, we generally take the software over the net from
an Inferno file service (ie, lib/srv) running in emu (under Plan 9).
We are providing this iPAQ kernel package to subscribers earlier,
for the benefit of those subscribers that can make use of it now
(eg, modify the networking setup to suit their own network).
A basic local file system package should be available shortly.
Until it is, if you are not confident you can set up the networking
or prepare a local file system, you should wait.

1. You must first prepare the iPAQ with the handhelds.org bootloader,
version 2.14.8 (later ones might work but we haven't yet tried them).
Use the iPAQ H3600 Linux installation instructions:
	ftp://ftp.handhelds.org/pub/linux/compaq/ipaq/stable/install.html
That includes a URL for the bootloader bootldr-0000-2.14.8
(if it specifies a different boot loader when you come to look at it,
please ask us about it first).

Following that procedure will eliminate Windows/CE from the device: if you will need it
in future, be sure to save the flash images as
described in the handhelds.org instructions.
Note that you will also be trusting that they can get you
back to a working Win/CE machine, so be sure to read the handhelds.org
documents thoroughly in that regard.

2. At the end, the instructions say ``At this point you have a working
bootloader and you are ready to install a Linux distribution''.
You can install Inferno instead, or several other systems, and
you can later install them instead of Inferno, since they all use
the same boot loader.

3. A ready-made Inferno kernel is in the file k.gz in this directory
(os/ipaq/k.gz in the Inferno structure).  With a 115k serial connection
to the bootloader established, as described for loading Linux,
when you tell the bootloader to `load kernel', send k.gz as the
data file (using the XMODEM protocol as described by Handhelds.org).
